YARN, The Resource Manager for Hadoop.
YARN is a resource manage layer that
sits just above the storage layer HDFS.
YARN interacts with applications and
schedules resources for their use.
YARN enables running multiple
applications over HDFC increases
resource efficiency and
let's you go beyond the map reduce or
even beyond the data
parallel programming model.
When Hadoop was first created,
this wasn't the case.
In fact, the original Hadoop
stack had no resource manager.
These two stacked diagrams, show, some of
it's evolution over the last ten years.
One of the biggest limitations
of Hadoop one point zero,
was it's inability to support
non-mapreduce applications.
It had several terrible
resource utilization.
This meant that for advanced
applications such as graph analysis that
required different ways of modelling and
looking at data, you would need to
move your data to another platform.
That's a lot of work if your data is big.
Adding YARN in between HDFS and
the applications enabled
new systems to be built, focusing on
different types of big data applications
such as Giraph for
graph data analysis, Storm for
streaming data analysis, and
Spark for in-memory analysis.
YARN does so
by providing a standard framework
that supports customized application
development in the HADOOP ecosystem.
YARN lets you extract maximum
benefits from your data sets
by letting you use the tools you
think are best for your big data.
Let's take a peek into the architecture
of YARN without getting too technical.
In this picture, notice the resource
manager in the center, and
the node managers on each of
the three nodes on the right.
The resource manager controls all
the resources, and decides who gets what.
Node manager operates at machine level and
is in charge of a single machine.
Together the resource manager and
the node manager form the data
computation framework.
Each application gets
an application master.
It negotiates resource from
the Resource Manager and
it talks to Node Manager
to get its tasks completed.
Notice the ovals labeled
Container The container
is an abstract Notions that
signifies a resource that is
a collection of CPU
memory disk network and
other resources within
the compute note to simplify and
be less precise you can think
of a container and the Machine.
We looked at the essential
gears of the YARN
engine to give you an idea of
the key components of YARN.
Now when you hear terms like
Resource Manager, Node Manager and
Container, you will have an understanding
of what tasks they are responsible for.
Here is a real life example to show
the strength Hadoop 2.0 over 1.0.
Yahoo was able to run almost
twice as many jobs per day with
Yarn than with Hadoop 1.0.
They also experienced a substantial
increase in CPU utilization.
Yahoo!
even claimed that upgrading
to YARN was equal into
adding 1000 machines to
their 2500 machine cluster.
That's big.
YARN success is evident
from an explosive growth of
different application that
the Hadoop ecosystem now has.
New to yarn?
You can use the tool of your choice
over your big data without any hassle.
Compare this with Hadoop 1.0 which
was limited to MapReduce alone.
Let's review a summary of
the key take-aways about yarn.
Yarn gives you many ways for
applications to extract value from data.
It lets you run many distributed
applications over the same Hadoop cluster.
In addition, YARN reduces
the need to move data around and
supports higher resource utilization
resulting in lower costs.
It's a scalable platform that has
enabled growth of several applications
over the HDFS,
enriching the Hadoop ecosystem.